https://www.toptal.com/devops/getting-started-with-docker-simplifying-devops
https://docker-curriculum.com/#prerequisites

Docker is a tool that allows developers, sys-admins etc. to easily deploy their applications in a containers to run on the host operating system i.e. Linux, Win
or
Docker is a tool designed to make it easier to create, deploy, and run applications by using containers.

it allows users to package an application with all of its dependencies into a standardized unit for software development.

--------------------------------------------------------------

Containerization is an approach to software development in which an application or service, its dependencies, and its configuration (abstracted as deployment manifest files) are packaged together as a container image.

A container image is a lightweight, stand-alone, executable package of a piece of software that includes everything needed to run it: code, runtime, system tools, system libraries, settings. 
Available for both Linux and Windows based apps

Containers are the instances of images - they are the living thing.

Containers enables developers and IT professionals to deploy them across environments with little or no modification.
 
There could be multiple containers running based on the same image.

container orchestration tools -
Kubernetes is the most open and extensible but also the most difficult to master. 

Docker Swarm is the easiest to use, but can be restrictive after a point. 

DC/OS has some great features for Big Data workloads.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Impoprtant term in docker
docker Images - The blueprints of our application which form the basis of containers. (docker pull)

Containers - Created from Docker images and run the actual application. (docker run)

Docker Daemon - The background service running on the host that manages building, running and distributing Docker containers.
Docker clinet talks with this service which runs on host OS.

Docker Client - The command line tool that allows the user to interact with the daemon

Docker Hub - A public registry of Docker images

Dockerfile - A text file that contains instructions for how to build a Docker image.

Lifecycle
Docker Images can be downloaded from registries explicitly using docker pull command or implicitely using docker run command which stores it locally.
container based on that downloaded image started using docker daemon.
Docker daemon responsible for creating, running, and monitoring containers. It also takes care of building and storing images.
docker run command executes the executables within the conatiner
 

docker command flow -
docker pull -
allows to fetch images from docker hub
docker run
When you call run,
the Docker client finds the image (busybox in this case), loads up the container and then runs a command in that container.
Docker ps -
List all the running conatiners
docker stop -
pass container ID retrived from docker ps command to stop container
docker rm -
to remove container from host

Useful commands -
stop - Stops a running container.
start - Starts a stopped container.
commit - Creates a new image from a container’s changes.
rm - Removes one or more containers.
rmi - Removes one or more images.
ps - Lists containers.
images - Lists images.
exec - Runs a command in a running container.