Service Fabric
Code Packages
Exe
dependencies.dll

config Packages
xml json

service packge
nodes

scale in

scale Out

stateless

statefull


https://channel9.msdn.com/Events/Connect/2017/T116

Channel 9
MS Virtual Academy 


Why Microservice
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EEwT6y5h09I

Container Service Fabric
https://channel9.msdn.com/Events/Build/2017/B8106

What is Azure Service Fabric?
Azure Service Fabric is a distributed systems platform that makes it easy to package, deploy, and manage scalable and reliable microservices and containers

- enables you to build and manage scalable and reliable applications composed of microservices
- Services runs at high density on a shared pool of machines called as cluster
- provides a sophisticated, lightweight runtime to build distributed, scalable, stateless, and stateful microservices running in containers


Service Fabric programming model overview


Service Fabric offers multiple ways to write and manage your services.
offers multiple ways to write and manage your services

Programming models Provided by Service Fabric -

1. Guest executables
simple executable (written in any language) that can be run as a service
Services uses the Service Fabric APIs 

2. Reliable Services
Reliable Services is a light-weight framework for writing services that integrate with the Service Fabric platform and benefit from the full set of platform features
Reliable Services can be stateless or statefull

3. ASP.NET Core
ASP.NET Core is a new open-source and cross-platform framework for building modern cloud-based Internet-connected applications, such as web apps, IoT apps, and mobile backends

4. Reliable Actors
Reliable Actors is a Service Fabric application framework based on the Virtual Actor pattern. 
An actor is an isolated, independent unit of compute and state with single-threaded execution. 

5. Containers
 Service Fabric can also deploy services in containers. 
Service Fabric supports deployment of Linux containers and Windows containers on Windows Server 2016
 Service Fabric can also deploy services in containers. Service Fabric supports deployment of Linux containers and Windows containers on Windows Server 2016



https://blog.appliedis.com/2017/06/09/building-stateless-microservice-using-microsoft-service-fabric-series/
